In this lesson, you will refactor your code around options.
Before we start this lesson, I want you to create a new folder called Exception.
And in your resources folder there are three Java files.
Please take some time to drag them over here.
All right, you should have the following set up.
Let's begin.
An optional is meant to prevent the possibility of a null pointer exception.
It is a container around an object that risks being null.
You'll notice that the crowd repository fine by ID method it actually returns an optional students.
Why does it do that?
Why not just return the student object itself?
Why is it wrapping it around this weird optional type?
It's actually trying to send you a message.
It's telling you, Hey, this student object that I am sending back, it's at risk of being null.
We're forcefully unwrapping the optional using dust gets a few force fill the unwrap an optional like
so without doing any prior checks before.
If the object inside the optional happens to be null, then we're actually leaving ourselves exposed
to a no such element exception.
Let's try it out.
I'm going to look for a student that doesn't exist.
A student with an ID of ten.
And we get back a no such element exception.
Now the no such element exception.
It is a Java exception and it's an indicator that you as the Java developer, you failed to account
for something in your application.
The find by ID method by virtue of sending us back the object in an optional.
It was giving us a warning.
Hey, the object inside might be null and we completely ignored that warning.
We just forcefully unwrapped it and got an exception.
So instead what we should do is consider the fact that the optional might be null.
So the correct way of handling the situation is setting this equal to an optional type.
We'll say optional.
Of type student.
Student is equal to whatever this gives us back.
We're not going to unwrap the optional just yet.
First, we have to make a check.
So we're going to say if student.
Dot is present if there is actually a value inside this optional, if the object inside is not null.
Only then can we actually unwrap it.
Return student.
Get.
By unwrapping it over here.
I'm at no risk of throwing a no such element exception if there isn't a value.
What I would want to do is return a404 to the user and I can do that by throwing a custom unchecked
exception.
So throw new student not found exception.
Again, DevTools is really slowing everything down.
Passing in the ID and your next workbook, we're going to handle that exception inside of a controller
advice and then there will send a status code of 404 in the event of a student not found exception.
So let's repeat this process wherever else.
We're forcefully unwrapping an optional without doing a prior check inside, of course.
Service implementation.
I'm doing it over here.
Let's store whatever optional is returned inside of an optional course type.
Course is equal to course repository defined by ID.
We're not going to unwrap the optional until we perform a check.
If course is present then we will say return course.
Don't get.
Otherwise throw a new in this case course not found exception.
When you're checking if there is actually a value inside of an optional, it's very similar to performing
a null check on a normal object.
It's just that this, in my opinion, is more elegant.
And it's also what's being returned by fine by ID, so we have no choice but to check it in this manner.
All right.
And.
Should be good everywhere else.
Um, inside of great service implementation.
And this is a problem.
This returns a grade, this also returns a grade.
And me, as an unsuspecting developer, I called this method.
It gave me back an object and I did not even consider that this object might be null.
I tried calling set score from a null and it threw a null pointer exception.
Well, instead, if I go back to my great repository and I return a grade that is actually wrapped around
an optional.
I'm basically warning whoever is calling this method.
Hey, the object that I'm sending you back, it is at risk of being null.
So for your sake, I wrapped it inside of an optional.
That way you don't get a null pointer exception.
But please do anticipate the scenario that the object I'm sending you back might be null and handle
this optional appropriately.
So as I call this method over here, I now see that it actually returns an optional grade.
And this prompts me to be careful because now I know.
Oh, this might actually be null.
So I'm going to store this inside of an optional grade type.
Optional grade.
And then I will check.
Is there actually a value inside if grade DOT is present?
In that case, I can feel safe about unwrapping this optional return grade get.
Otherwise.
I will throw a new grade not found exception.
I'll go back over here and do the exact same thing.
If there is a value, then I will say grade.
Unwrapped grade is equal to grade get.
Then I'll update the score.
And save the grade.
Great repository.
Save grade.
Or unwrapped grade, I should say.
And if the grade that they're trying to find those in exist, then we're going to throw a new grade
not found exception.
Oh, don't forget to return whatever grade that gets saved.
All right.
I think we're looking great.
We're in really good shape.
Again, we could have just returned a normal grade and then said if whatever grade returns equals null.
But by sending back an optional, we're giving whoever is calling this method a warning that the grade
here might be null.
Then they will have the intuition to perform that null check beforehand.